The RAMP
Knee Positioning System™
The RAMP allows effortless shifts between six
stable positions, providing unconstrained leg
motion. The unique design maximizes operational,
surgical, and financial efficiency during a broad
range of knee procedures.

Ramped up
Locked down
Full Knee Extension
The raised position of the most distal foot
rest allows for full knee extension, especially
for patients with larger thighs.

Protection of Pressure Points
The soft, rounded distal side of the footrest
provides comfort to the Achilles area, while its
ergonomic shape offers optimal calf support.

Flexible Mounting
Multiple mounting slots enable
adaptable attachment to any OR table,
while rubber feet ensure enhanced
traction.
Hyper Flex Position
The knee can be stabilized in the hyper-flexed
position by allowing the patient’s foot to slide into
the pocket located in position 1 of the RAMP.

Velcro Belts
Velcro belts are available in two sizes
to provide adaptable mounting on
any OR table. Installation instructions
are printed on the Velcro belts for
ease of use.

Flat Pad Design
The flat, firm, proximal-facing pad
surface provides stable positioning for
the sole of the foot.

Raised Edges
Raised edges improve the visibility
of pad location through the drape,
improving accuracy and ease of use
during positioning.

Footrest Grip
The microstructured footrest provides a
firm grip and superior stability.

Improved Surgical Ergonomics
During TKA, the position of the knee changes
frequently between the two extreme positions
of flexion and extension. The RAMP elevates
the knee in full extension, reducing the total
change in height of the surgical field during the
procedure.

Easily Accessible Full Extension
Raised-foot design more easily enables full
knee extension, especially for patients with
larger thighs.

Hands-free Stability
Installing a lateral support and a wedge below
the hip leads to maximum stability in all six leg
positions with unobstructed access to the leg.

Simple Setup
The RAMP is quickly and easily secured to any
standard OR table with two Velcro straps, allowing for quick setup and turnover.

The Ramp Set Up Guide
Scan the QR Code to get to
the setup guide for The RAMP.

Why choose The RAMP?
The RAMP optimizes knee procedures by reducing
staff and resources.

Swiss made all-in-one solution, secures easily to
One Device The
any standard OR table with two Velcro straps – no
Six Positions extra components required.

With no need for autoclaving or sterile consumables,
The RAMP ensures rapid setup and turnover, saving
valuable time and keeping procedures on schedule,
while also producing less waste.

Order at info@iotiot.com

IOT (Innovative Orthopedic Technologies) develops specialty
solutions for the orthopedic market, with a focus on innovative
patient positioning devices that fit seamlessly into the operating
environment. We aim to streamline procedures, support
repeatability, and literally free the hands of the surgical team.

United States:
Innovative Orthopedic Technologies, LLC
8708 South Congress · Suite A-140 · Austin, TX 78745
t: +1 409-658-1017 · e: info@iotiot.com · w: www.iotiot.com
International:
Innovative Orthopedic Technologies IOT AG
Langäulistrasse 8 · CH-9470 Buchs ·Switzerland
t: +41 81 511 9800 · e: info@iotiot.com · w: www.iotiot.com

International patent application PCT/EP2024/055273 / International design registration No. DM/230247
Non-contractual pictures. Please carefully read the instructions for use:
RD-PT-9811000-01en				
		

						

RD-PT-9811000-19_V02_Brochure_RAMP_EN

